# myhubot

myhubot is a chat bot built on the [Hubot][hubot] framework. It was initially
generated by [generator-hubot][generator-hubot], and configured to be deployed
on Heroku to get you up and running as quick as possible. **Note:** Heroku and
Redis have been disabled on this instance.

This README is intended to help get you started. Definitely update and improve
to talk about your own instance, how to use and deploy, what functionality he
has, etc!

[hubot]: http://hubot.github.com
[generator-hubot]: https://github.com/github/generator-hubot

### Running myhubot Locally

You can test your hubot by running the following.

You can start myhubot locally by running:

    % bin/hubot

You'll see some start up output about where your scripts come from and a
prompt:

    [Sun, 04 Dec 2011 18:41:11 GMT] INFO Loading adapter shell
    [Sun, 04 Dec 2011 18:41:11 GMT] INFO Loading scripts from /home/tomb/Development/hubot/scripts
    [Sun, 04 Dec 2011 18:41:11 GMT] INFO Loading scripts from /home/tomb/Development/hubot/src/scripts
    Hubot>

Then you can interact with myhubot by typing `myhubot help`.

    myhubot> myhubot help

    myhubot> animate me <query> - The same thing as `image me`, except adds a few
    convert me <expression> to <units> - Convert expression to given units.
    help - Displays all of the help commands that Hubot knows about.
    ...


### Scripting

An example script is included at `scripts/example.coffee`, so check it out to
get started, along with the [Scripting
Guide](https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/scripting.md).

For many common tasks, there's a good chance someone has already one to do just
the thing.

### hubot-scripts

There will inevitably be functionality that everyone will want. Instead
of writing it yourself, you can check
[hubot-scripts][hubot-scripts] for existing scripts.

To enable scripts from the hubot-scripts package, add the script name with
extension as a double quoted string to the `hubot-scripts.json` file in this
repo.

[hubot-scripts]: https://github.com/github/hubot-scripts

### external-scripts

Hubot is able to load scripts from third-party `npm` package. Check the
package's documentation, but in general it is:

1. Add the packages as dependencies into your `package.json`
2. `npm install` to make sure those packages are installed
3. Add the package name to `external-scripts.json` as a double quoted string

You can review `external-scripts.json` to see what is included by default.

##  Persistence

If you are going to use the `hubot-redis-brain` package, you will need to
create an account at [Redis to Go][redistogo] and manually set the
`REDISTOGO_URL` variable.

If you don't require any persistence feel free to remove the
`hubot-redis-brain` from `external-scripts.json` and you don't need to worry
about redis at all.

[redistogo]: https://redistogo.com/

## Adapters

Adapters are the interface to the service you want your hubot to run on. This
can be something like Campfire or IRC. There are a number of third party
adapters that the community have contributed. Check
[Hubot Adapters][hubot-adapters] for the available ones.

If you would like to run a non-Campfire or shell adapter you will need to add
the adapter package as a dependency to the `package.json` file in the
`dependencies` section.

Once you've added the dependency and run `npm install` to install it you can
then run hubot with the adapter.

    % bin/hubot -a <adapter>

Where `<adapter>` is the name of your adapter without the `hubot-` prefix.

[hubot-adapters]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/adapters.md

## Restart the bot

You may want to get comfortable with `heroku logs` and `heroku restart`
if you're having issues.
